Welcome to the Health Insurance Comparison Series.
As we have
mentioned in our previous videos, you should
buy comprehensive policies,
but which comprehensive policy should you
buy and which company's policy should you
buy is still a big
question. In this series, we will
compare all the comprehensive policies and
tell you which features of which comprehensive policy are the
best. So
today, we will compare the top comprehensive policies of these three top companies - Niva, Bappa, Aspire, ADAC, Optima
Secure, and III Lord Elevate,
and tell you which
features of which policy are the best.
Before we start, please like my video
and subscribe to my channel
so that I can share such interesting insights
with you. Let's start.
As you can see at the top of the screen,
we will mainly talk about eight very important features
such as room
limit, payment, restoration benefit, no
claim bonus, and some important features of each different
policy which are different in every policy.  If it is
different from other policies, then let's start
with the room rent limit. As you
can see at the top of the screen, there is no
room rent limit in all the three policies.
ICCI Lord's policy
comes with a single private AC room, but if you
add a rider in it, then there is no
room rent limit because of that. So,
thumbs up to all the three policies. There is no room rent
limit in these. Now coming to point
number two, copayment. There is
no copayment in all the three policies
and the insurer will pay the entire bill. So,
thumbs up to all the three policies for this as well. Now coming to the
restoration benefit, which is the
most important benefit in today's policies.
In n v aspire, unlimited number of
restorations are available for both same person same illness and same
person different illness. Similarly,
hdfcergo.com and also available for same person different illness.
So n v
aspire and
hdfcergo.com 10  A policy of Rs 1 lakh
becomes a policy of Rs 1 crore within 10 years. If you
join Optima Secure, then
4x benefit is available there, which means that a
policy of Rs 10 lakh will
become a policy of Rs 40 lakh within 2 years. If you
join ICICI Lombard Elevate, then the
policy of Rs 10 lakh will keep adding Rs 10 lakh every year
and there is no upper cap. So, there
is unlimited no-claim bonus
in ICICI Lombard Elevate. So, if we
rank here, then number one
is ICICI Lombard Elevate because there is no
cap on no-claim bonus there.
Then comes Niva Bappa Aspire and last
comes HDFC Ergo Optima Secure. Now
comes point number five: Pre-existing
disease waiting period. There is a
3-year waiting period for pre-existing diseases in all three policies,
but ICICI
Lombard Elevate has a waiver for some diseases,
for example.  You can waive the waiting period for
these four diseases like asthma, diabetes, cholesterol and blood pressure by
paying a higher premium.
Similarly, in Niva Bappa Aspire also,
you can waive the waiting period for diabetes and blood pressure by paying an extra premium. There
is no waiver available in Optima Secure and there is a
waiting period of 3 years for all pre-existing diseases. So
here, there is an advantage
in both ICAI Lombard Elevate and Niva Bappa Aspire.
If you have any pre-existing
disease, now let's come to point number six
about maternity cover.
Maternity cover is available in ICAI Lombard Elevate but there is a
waiting period of nine months. If you
look at ICCI Lombard Elevate, there is a
waiting period of one year and in this, you get cover
up to 10 per cent of sum insured or 1
lakh whichever is lower.
hdfcfund.com it will increase until you make the first claim.
In all other policies, the waiting period is 5 years
or  Then the yearly premium increases but
this premium lock facility
is available in Niva and Aspire. If you
look at ICICI Lord Elevate, then after the completion of the second year of your policy,
you can put unlimited claims once in the policy. So this is the
advantage of Lord Elevate, if we talk about
hdfc0000001, then these are
some extra added benefits of all three policies
which are
comparative cover
hdfcfund.com 0 days post hospitalization
cover is available. For the first time in ICICI Lord,
90 days pre hospitalization and
180 days post hospitalization cover
is available. 90 days pre hospitalization cover has
come for the first time in any policy. So here the
features of ICCI Lord are better as
compared to the other two policies. Now it comes
under the 10th point which is the last point.
Premium rise. You have just taken a health insurance
policy but
how will the premium rise happen in the future in all three policies. Let us
know in n Aspire, your premium will remain
locked until you complete the first year.  If you do not make a claim,
when you make the first claim, the
premium will shift to your A slab and
from there the premium will increase by 15 to 20 in every five-year bracket. So,
for example, if
your age slab is 51, then the premium will be for the age slab of 50 to 55
and as soon as you turn 56, the
premium will increase by 15 to 20.
Under Ice Lord Elevate, the premium will increase every 5 years and
that too increases by around 15 to 20.
If we look at the
premium rise every year on hdfcergo.com, and that
premium rise is around 8 to 10,
then here NV Air has a huge
advantage of premium lock and after that there is
IR Elevate in which the premium increases in every 5-year bracket.
Now let's talk about the
premium. As you can see at the top of the screen,
NV Air is the most expensive
policy and its premium is for a 30-
year old ₹10 lakh sum insured.  ₹1
is 14001. If you talk about Elevate
and hdfcergo.com, the
premium of both is around 12000.
So what is our conclusion about these three
policies? All three policies
are very good policies. All three policies have some
advantages and some disadvantages. N B
Aspire has a premium lock facility, so
it becomes very important for those
who are young and have a corporate policy.
They will get a lot of benefits in it
and they will get no claim bonus up
to 10x. So according to us, Niva and
Aspire can be very good and economical for young people who are office goers
and those who have a corporate policy.
Now let's talk about ISI Loba and
Elevate. Some of the features of ISI Loba are
path breaking. For example,
after the second year, you will get unlimited claims
and unlimited no claim bonus. This has never
happened in the health insurance industry.
And these are some of the five breaking features.  The
disadvantage of ICC Loba is that
under unlimited restoration, you will have to
wait for 45 days for the same person, same illness.
Now let's talk about hdfcergo.com. The
features of this policy are a bit lacking in comparison to your NV Aspire and Aaaa Lord Elevate.
However, this policy is also very good in
which you get 2x cover from day one
and unlimited number of stores are also
available in the policy. So today we
dissected these three policies and
we compared all the three policies. All the three
policies are good. Keep in mind that
while buying these three policies, contact a good agent
who will carefully look at your health insurance
requirements and then
tell you which health insurance
policy you should buy. Stay with us
with such exciting videos and
definitely press the like and subscribe button.